README.md, before:

# ThemeDeck Documentation

## February 24, 2026 Update (v2.4.0)

This update adds an optional **store-only music track** that plays only on Steam Store pages, with independent preview, volume, remove, and truncate-start controls.

## February 23, 2026 Update (v2.3.0)

This update adds an optional **global/ambient music track** for non-game pages, including its own individual volume setting and playback controls.

## February 21, 2026 Update (v2.2.0)

This update allows users to attach ThemeDeck music for games that are not installed yet. If a game has a Steam game page, users can now assign music and have it play there.

## February 21, 2026 Update (v2.1.0)

This update adds a per-game **Truncate beginning of song** setting (0-30 seconds) in ThemeDeck settings. This lets users skip silent intros by starting each assigned track at a custom offset.

## February 19, 2026 Update (v2.0.0)

This update adds **YouTube search/download support powered by `yt-dlp`** so users can search game music, preview tracks, download locally, and assign directly from ThemeDeck. You still have the option to manually assign local music tracks.

![ThemeDeck February 19 2026 update thumbnail](https://images.steamusercontent.com/ugc/10217922894651388729/0056712F90842A587703E222C9AD211D53B2344E/?imw=5000&imh=5000&ima=fit&impolicy=Letterbox&imcolor=%23000000&letterbox=false)

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/U6U516PSAI' target='_blank'><img height='36' style='border:0px;height:36px;' src='https://storage.ko-fi.com/cdn/kofi5.png?v=6' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com' /></a>

## Overview

ThemeDeck is a Decky Loader plugin that associates locally stored music files with specific Steam games, including games that are not installed yet, and also supports optional global/ambient and store-only tracks. When you open a supported page in Gaming Mode, the plugin automatically locates the matching track, streams it into a shared looping `HTMLAudioElement`, and fades playback out as soon as you leave the page. All selections are stored on the Deck under the plugin's settings directory so they survive reboots and Decky updates.

## Supported File Types

- `mp3`, `aac`, `flac`, `ogg`, `wav`, `m4a`
- The frontend file browser only shows those extensions, and the backend advertises the surrounding MIME types when it returns the encoded audio payload. Unsupported files are ignored.

## Data Flow

1. **Track discovery**
   - The frontend exposes a file browser via `/themedeck/:appid`, reachable from the Decky tab or the Library context menu entry "Choose ThemeDeck music…".
   - Browsing is powered by the backend `list_directory` call, which enumerates folders/files under `/home/deck` (or any manually entered path) while skipping unreadable entries.

2. **Selection**
   - Picking a file invokes `set_track(app_id, path, filename)`, which verifies the file exists, is readable, and then writes a JSON record to `tracks.json`. Each record stores `{app_id, path, filename, volume}`.
   - The frontend emits a `themedeck:tracks-updated` event so every view refreshes its cached track map.

3. **Playback**
   - When a game detail page is opened, a hidden `GameFocusBridge` component looks up the matching `GameTrack` from the React state tied to `get_tracks()`.
   - `playTrack` resolves the audio by calling `load_track_audio(path)`; that backend method reads the file, base64-encodes it, and returns metadata used to create an object URL. Object URLs are cached per path and invalidated whenever a track changes or is removed.
   - The shared audio element loops the file, applies the saved per-game volume, and reports play/pause status to any UI preview buttons.

4. **Stopping**
   - Leaving the page or manually pausing fades the audio out (8 steps over ~320 ms) before rewinding and freeing the source URL. This prevents overlapping playback during rapid navigation.

## Frontend Details

- **Main panel**
  - Shows build info, quick instructions, and the auto-play toggle. Auto-play is stored in `localStorage` (`themedeck:autoPlay`) so it mirrors Gaming Mode’s behavior even before Decky finishes loading.
  - Lists every assigned track with:
    - Preview / pause buttons (manual playback keeps `reason="manual"` so in-page auto-play logic will not override it).
    - Remove buttons with confirmation prompts.
    - A per-game volume slider (0–100%). Adjusting the slider immediately applies gain to the actively playing track and persists via the backend `set_volume`.

- **Change Theme page**
  - Displays the currently linked file (name and absolute path) together with remove and done buttons.
  - Provides directory controls (Go Up, manual path entry, folder/file lists). Files are filtered by the supported extensions; picking one immediately saves and toasts feedback.

## Focus & Auto-Play Detection

- A polling watcher (`startLocationWatcher`) reads the focused Steam UI window's pathname every 750 ms to capture route changes that do not fire SteamClient events.
- Parallel `SteamClient.Apps` subscriptions (`startSteamAppWatchers`) listen for app overview/detail updates; whenever a game ID is detected, `notifyFocus` broadcasts it.
- Library app routes (`/library/app/:appid`, `/library/details/:appid`, and collection variants) are patched to inject `GameFocusBridge`, which:
  - Watches `autoPlay` and the active track list.
  - Starts playback when a matching track exists and auto-play is enabled.
  - Stops playback (with fade-out) when navigating away, when no track exists, or when auto-play is disabled.
- The same focus signal is used by the patched Library context menu to preselect the correct app before opening the `/themedeck/:appid` route.

## Storage & State

- **tracks.json** – lives under `decky.DECKY_PLUGIN_SETTINGS_DIR`, contains every `{app_id, path, filename, volume}` record. It is loaded on startup and persisted after any change.
- **Audio cache** – in-memory `Map<path, {objectUrl, mtime}>` so multiple navigations do not require re-reading files. Cache entries are revoked via `URL.revokeObjectURL` when the track list changes or an individual entry is removed.
- **Preferences** – only auto-play is stored client-side; all other settings live in `tracks.json`.

## Error Handling

- File selection validates existence and permissions before saving. Permission or missing-file errors are surfaced through Decky toasts so users know why a track failed to attach.
- Playback failures (e.g., deleted files) are handled by reporting the error, clearing the audio element, and stopping playback to avoid hung audio threads.
- Directory enumeration gracefully skips entries that raise `PermissionError`, keeping the browser responsive even when encountering protected paths.

## Typical Workflow

1. Navigate to a game's detail page and open the Decky menu.
2. Choose **Settings → Choose ThemeDeck music…** 
3. Browse to the desired local audio file and select it. ThemeDeck stores the association and immediately refreshes the Decky panel.
4. Return to the game's detail page. If auto-play is enabled (default), the music starts instantly. Use the Decky panel to adjust per-game volume, preview, pause, or remove the track at any time.

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/U6U516PSAI' target='_blank'><img height='36' style='border:0px;height:36px;' src='https://storage.ko-fi.com/cdn/kofi5.png?v=6' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com' /></a>

Commit message:

Release v2.4.1: block playback in Desktop Mode

README.md, after:

# ThemeDeck Documentation

## February 24, 2026 Update (v2.4.1)

This update ensures ThemeDeck never plays any music tracks while Steam is in Desktop Mode.

## February 24, 2026 Update (v2.4.0)

This update adds an optional **store-only music track** that plays only on Steam Store pages, with independent preview, volume, remove, and truncate-start controls.

## February 23, 2026 Update (v2.3.0)

This update adds an optional **global/ambient music track** for non-game pages, including its own individual volume setting and playback controls.

## February 21, 2026 Update (v2.2.0)

This update allows users to attach ThemeDeck music for games that are not installed yet. If a game has a Steam game page, users can now assign music and have it play there.

## February 21, 2026 Update (v2.1.0)

This update adds a per-game **Truncate beginning of song** setting (0-30 seconds) in ThemeDeck settings. This lets users skip silent intros by starting each assigned track at a custom offset.

## February 19, 2026 Update (v2.0.0)

This update adds **YouTube search/download support powered by `yt-dlp`** so users can search game music, preview tracks, download locally, and assign directly from ThemeDeck. You still have the option to manually assign local music tracks.

![ThemeDeck February 19 2026 update thumbnail](https://images.steamusercontent.com/ugc/10217922894651388729/0056712F90842A587703E222C9AD211D53B2344E/?imw=5000&imh=5000&ima=fit&impolicy=Letterbox&imcolor=%23000000&letterbox=false)

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/U6U516PSAI' target='_blank'><img height='36' style='border:0px;height:36px;' src='https://storage.ko-fi.com/cdn/kofi5.png?v=6' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com' /></a>

## Overview

ThemeDeck is a Decky Loader plugin that associates locally stored music files with specific Steam games, including games that are not installed yet, and also supports optional global/ambient and store-only tracks. When you open a supported page in Gaming Mode, the plugin automatically locates the matching track, streams it into a shared looping `HTMLAudioElement`, and fades playback out as soon as you leave the page. All selections are stored on the Deck under the plugin's settings directory so they survive reboots and Decky updates.

## Supported File Types

- `mp3`, `aac`, `flac`, `ogg`, `wav`, `m4a`
- The frontend file browser only shows those extensions, and the backend advertises the surrounding MIME types when it returns the encoded audio payload. Unsupported files are ignored.

## Data Flow

1. **Track discovery**
   - The frontend exposes a file browser via `/themedeck/:appid`, reachable from the Decky tab or the Library context menu entry "Choose ThemeDeck music…".
   - Browsing is powered by the backend `list_directory` call, which enumerates folders/files under `/home/deck` (or any manually entered path) while skipping unreadable entries.

2. **Selection**
   - Picking a file invokes `set_track(app_id, path, filename)`, which verifies the file exists, is readable, and then writes a JSON record to `tracks.json`. Each record stores `{app_id, path, filename, volume}`.
   - The frontend emits a `themedeck:tracks-updated` event so every view refreshes its cached track map.

3. **Playback**
   - When a game detail page is opened, a hidden `GameFocusBridge` component looks up the matching `GameTrack` from the React state tied to `get_tracks()`.
   - `playTrack` resolves the audio by calling `load_track_audio(path)`; that backend method reads the file, base64-encodes it, and returns metadata used to create an object URL. Object URLs are cached per path and invalidated whenever a track changes or is removed.
   - The shared audio element loops the file, applies the saved per-game volume, and reports play/pause status to any UI preview buttons.

4. **Stopping**
   - Leaving the page or manually pausing fades the audio out (8 steps over ~320 ms) before rewinding and freeing the source URL. This prevents overlapping playback during rapid navigation.

## Frontend Details

- **Main panel**
  - Shows build info, quick instructions, and the auto-play toggle. Auto-play is stored in `localStorage` (`themedeck:autoPlay`) so it mirrors Gaming Mode’s behavior even before Decky finishes loading.
  - Lists every assigned track with:
    - Preview / pause buttons (manual playback keeps `reason="manual"` so in-page auto-play logic will not override it).
    - Remove buttons with confirmation prompts.
    - A per-game volume slider (0–100%). Adjusting the slider immediately applies gain to the actively playing track and persists via the backend `set_volume`.

- **Change Theme page**
  - Displays the currently linked file (name and absolute path) together with remove and done buttons.
  - Provides directory controls (Go Up, manual path entry, folder/file lists). Files are filtered by the supported extensions; picking one immediately saves and toasts feedback.

## Focus & Auto-Play Detection

- A polling watcher (`startLocationWatcher`) reads the focused Steam UI window's pathname every 750 ms to capture route changes that do not fire SteamClient events.
- Parallel `SteamClient.Apps` subscriptions (`startSteamAppWatchers`) listen for app overview/detail updates; whenever a game ID is detected, `notifyFocus` broadcasts it.
- Library app routes (`/library/app/:appid`, `/library/details/:appid`, and collection variants) are patched to inject `GameFocusBridge`, which:
  - Watches `autoPlay` and the active track list.
  - Starts playback when a matching track exists and auto-play is enabled.
  - Stops playback (with fade-out) when navigating away, when no track exists, or when auto-play is disabled.
- The same focus signal is used by the patched Library context menu to preselect the correct app before opening the `/themedeck/:appid` route.

## Storage & State

- **tracks.json** – lives under `decky.DECKY_PLUGIN_SETTINGS_DIR`, contains every `{app_id, path, filename, volume}` record. It is loaded on startup and persisted after any change.
- **Audio cache** – in-memory `Map<path, {objectUrl, mtime}>` so multiple navigations do not require re-reading files. Cache entries are revoked via `URL.revokeObjectURL` when the track list changes or an individual entry is removed.
- **Preferences** – only auto-play is stored client-side; all other settings live in `tracks.json`.

## Error Handling

- File selection validates existence and permissions before saving. Permission or missing-file errors are surfaced through Decky toasts so users know why a track failed to attach.
- Playback failures (e.g., deleted files) are handled by reporting the error, clearing the audio element, and stopping playback to avoid hung audio threads.
- Directory enumeration gracefully skips entries that raise `PermissionError`, keeping the browser responsive even when encountering protected paths.

## Typical Workflow

1. Navigate to a game's detail page and open the Decky menu.
2. Choose **Settings → Choose ThemeDeck music…** 
3. Browse to the desired local audio file and select it. ThemeDeck stores the association and immediately refreshes the Decky panel.
4. Return to the game's detail page. If auto-play is enabled (default), the music starts instantly. Use the Decky panel to adjust per-game volume, preview, pause, or remove the track at any time.

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/U6U516PSAI' target='_blank'><img height='36' style='border:0px;height:36px;' src='https://storage.ko-fi.com/cdn/kofi5.png?v=6' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com' /></a>
